[MM-21753] Document process for Community Plugins in the Marketplace (#524)
mattermost/mattermost-developer-documentation: site/content/extend/plugins/community_process.md

---

> Getting your plugin onto our community server https://community.mattermost.com is a valuable source of feedback. Whether you are a [Core Committer](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-developer-documentation/blob/dae9ecb3b445111479acbaba9f382e9eb263bc52/contribute/getting-started/core-committers) or anyone from the community, we want you to get feedback to improve your plugin. However we must ensure that our community server remains stable for everyone. This document outlines the process of getting your plugin onto the community server. Some of these steps are  required to get your plugin into the [Plugin Marketplace](/extend/plugins/community-plugin-marketplace/). When you are ready to have your plugin start this process, ask in the ~Toolkit channel on the community server. The PM, or someone else from the integrations team will help you start the process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Getting your plugin onto our community server https://community.mattermost.com is a valuable source of feedback. Whether you are a [Core Committer](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-developer-documentation/blob/dae9ecb3b445111479acbaba9f382e9eb263bc52/contribute/getting-started/core-committers) or anyone from the community, we want you to get feedback to improve your plugin. However we must ensure that our community server remains stable for everyone. This document outlines the process of getting your plugin onto the community server. Some of these steps are required to get your plugin into the [Plugin Marketplace](/extend/plugins/community-plugin-marketplace/). When you are ready to have your plugin start this process, ask in the ~Toolkit channel on the community server. The PM, or someone else from the integrations team will help you start the process.
```

Reviewer: Also, can you link ~Toolkit here?

> Getting your plugin onto our community server https://community.mattermost.com is a valuable source of feedback. Whether you are a [Core Committer](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-developer-documentation/blob/dae9ecb3b445111479acbaba9f382e9eb263bc52/contribute/getting-started/core-committers) or anyone from the community, we want you to get feedback to improve your plugin. However we must ensure that our community server remains stable for everyone. This document outlines the process of getting your plugin onto the community server. Some of these steps arerequired to get your plugin into the [Plugin Marketplace](/extend/plugins/community-plugin-marketplace/). When you are ready to have your plugin start this process, ask in the [Toolkit channel](https://community.mattermost.com/core/channels/developer-toolkit) on the community server. The PM, or someone else from the integrations team will help you start the process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Getting your plugin onto our Community server https://community.mattermost.com is a valuable source of feedback. Whether you are a [Core Committer](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-developer-documentation/blob/dae9ecb3b445111479acbaba9f382e9eb263bc52/contribute/getting-started/core-committers) or anyone from the community, we want you to get feedback to improve your plugin. 

However we must ensure that our Community server remains stable for everyone. This document outlines the process of getting your plugin onto the Community server and some of these steps are required to get your plugin into the [Plugin Marketplace](/extend/plugins/community-plugin-marketplace/). 

When you are ready to begin this process for your plugin, ask in the [Toolkit channel](https://community.mattermost.com/core/channels/developer-toolkit) on the Community server. The PM, or someone else from the integrations team will help you start the process.
```

> - When you are ready for your plugin to start this process, post an introduction in the [Integrations and Apps channel](https://community.mattermost.com/core/channels/integrations) on the community server. E.g., "Hi, I have a plugin that I would like to get reviewed. It is called ... It is designed to ... Thanks for reviewing it!" Here is an example: https://community.mattermost.com/core/pl/6dci1ssexjrh9rmdzt4pdpb9zy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When you are ready for your plugin to start this process, post an introduction in the [Integrations and Apps channel](https://community.mattermost.com/core/channels/integrations) on the Community server. Here is [an example](https://community.mattermost.com/core/pl/6dci1ssexjrh9rmdzt4pdpb9zy).
```

### CI System Setup

> Setting up the CI system for your plugin will allow continuous testing of your master branch and releases on our testing servers. Master branch testing is done on https://ci-extensions.azure.k8s.mattermost.com/ and release testing is done on https://ci-extensions-release.azure.k8s.mattermost.com/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Setting up the CI system for your plugin will allow continuous testing of your master branch and releases on our testing servers. Master branch testing is done on [https://ci-extensions.azure.k8s.mattermost.com](https://ci-extensions.azure.k8s.mattermost.com) and release testing is done on [https://ci-extensions-release.azure.k8s.mattermost.com](https://ci-extensions-release.azure.k8s.mattermost.com).
```

Author: I don't think the linking is _needed_ here. Hugo will do this on it's own. Any reason to force the linking?

Reviewer 2: Nope, if it's done automatically then this change can be disregarded. I didn't realize that Hugo does that. :)

> In order to set this up, we will need a URL where we can on a nightly basis, pull the latest master build. Once that exists you can make a request in the [Integrations and Apps](https://community.mattermost.com/core/channels/integrations) channel.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to set this up, the plugin creator needs to provide a URL that hosts latest master build, which we can pull on a nightly basis. Once that exists you can make a request in the [Integrations and Apps](https://community.mattermost.com/core/channels/integrations) channel.
```

[More info](https://www.apache.org/legal/resolved.html#category-a)

> ### Complete code review

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Complete Code Review
```

> A more through code review is performed before allowing a plugin on ci-extensions-release. This review works the same as the basic code review, but the developers performing the review will be more through. If the developer that performed the first review is available, they should be one of the reviewers. One of the reviewers should focus their review on the any security implications of the plugin.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A more thorough code review is performed before allowing a plugin on `ci-extensions-release`. This review works the same as the basic code review, but the developers performing the review will be more thorough. If the developer that performed the first review is available, they should be one of the reviewers. Another of the reviewers should focus their review on any security implications of the plugin.
```

> ### QA pass

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### QA Pass
```

QA pass involves getting a member of our QA team to take a look and verify the functionality advertised by your plugin.

Steps involved:

- Ensure all setup documentation needed is clear and can be successfully followed.
- Dedicated instance or test account to access and test the third-party service, if applicable.
- Functional testing has been done to ensure the integration works as expected.

> - For Plugins owned by Mattermost - Release testing is added to cover the main functionality of the plugin.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- For plugins owned by Mattermost, release testing is added to cover the main functionality of the plugin.
```

### PM/UX Review

A PM/UX pass involves getting PM support in ironing out any user experience or UI issues with the plugin.

Steps involved:

- Create a one paragraph summary of the integration.

> - Document the main use cases into bullet form.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Document the main use cases into bullet form.
```
```suggestion
- Document the main use cases in bullet form.
```

- Review the primary use cases and run through them to ensure they are complete, clear, and functional.

> - Ensure there is documentation to support the plugin. (may include having sufficient helper text in the plugin)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Ensure there is documentation to support the plugin. This may include having sufficient helper text in the plugin.
```

> - Consider if there are any communication to other teams or users required as part of the rollout to our community server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Consider if communication to other teams or users is required as part of the rollout to our Community server.
```

A PM/UX pass involves getting PM support in ironing out any user experience or UI issues with the plugin.

Steps involved:

> 

Reviewer 2: Please add periods to each bullet point. :)

- Create a one paragraph summary of the integration
- Document the main use cases into bullet form

> - Review the primary use cases and run through them to ensure they are complete, clear and functional.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Review the primary use cases and run through them to ensure they are complete, clear, and functional.
```
